releases: add tidb 5.3.1 release notes (#7699)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-5.3.1.md

---
title: TiDB 5.3.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.3.1 Release Notes

Release Date: xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.3.1

## Compatibility changes

- Tools

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Change the default value of `regionMaxKeyCount` from 1_440_000 to 1_280_000, to avoid too many empty Regions after data import [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)

## Feature enhancements

- TiDB

>     - Optimize the mapping logic of user login mode to make the logging more MySQL-compatible [#30450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30450)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the mapping logic of user login mode to make the logging more MySQL-compatible [#30450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32648)
```

        - Manage sink checkpoints per table to avoid unexpected advance of checkpoint timestamps [#3545](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3545)
        - Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed. [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3337)
        - Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        - Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)
       - Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
       - Reduce the time for the KV client to recover when a TiKV store is down [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191)

>     - TiDB Lightning

Reviewer 2: The indentation is incorrect.

        - Refine the output message of the precheck to make it more user-friendly when the local disk space check fails [#30395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30395)

> ## Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bug fixes
```

- TiDB

>     - Fix the issue that `date_format` in TiDB handles `'\n'` in a MySQL-incompatible way [#32503](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32503)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `date_format` in TiDB handles `'\n'` in a MySQL-incompatible way [#32503](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32232)
```

    - Fix the issue that `alter column set default` wrongly updates the table schema [#31074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31074)
    - Fix a bug that `tidb_super_read_only` is not automatically enabled when `tidb_restricted_read_only` is enabled [#31745](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31745)

>     - Fix the issue that the `greatest` or `least` function with collation gets wrong result [#31789](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31789)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `greatest` or `least` function with collation gets a wrong result [#31789](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31789)
```

    - Fix the MPP task list empty error when executing a query [#31636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31636)
    - Fix wrong results of index join caused by an innerWorker panic [#31494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31494)
    - Fix wrong query results after changing the column type from `FLOAT` to `DOUBLE` [#31372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31372)
    - Fix the `invalid transaction` error when executing a query using index lookup join [#30468](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30468)
    - Fix wrong query results due to the optimization of `Order By` [#30271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30271)
    - Fix the issue that the configurations of `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` do not take effect on the slow log [#25716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25716)

>     - Fix the issue that executing the INSERT ... SELECT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE statement gets panic [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that executing the `INSERT ... SELECT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement gets panic [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
```

- TiKV

    - Fix the panic issue caused by deleting snapshot files when the peer status is `Applying` [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
    - Fix the issue of QPS drop when flow control is enabled and `level0_slowdown_trigger` is set explicitly [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when the cgroup controller is not mounted [#11569](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11569)

>     - Fix the issue that the latency of Resolved TS increases after TiKV stops operating [#11352](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11352)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the latency of Resolved TS increases after TiKV stops operating [#11351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11351)
```

        - Fix a bug that a TiCDC node exits abnormally when a PD leader is killed [#4248](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4248)
        - Fix the issue that execution errors of the update statement in safemode may cause the DM-worker panic [#4317](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4317)
        - Fix the issue that cached region metric of the TiKV client may be negative [#4300](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4300)
        - Fix the bug that HTTP API panics when the required processor infomation does not exist [#3840](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3840)
        - Fix a bug that the relay status in the DM-master is wrong after restarting the DM-master and DM-worker in a particular order [#3478](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3478)
        - Fix a bug that the DM-worker fails to boot up after a restart [#3344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3344)
        - Fix a bug that a DM task fails if running a PARTITION DDL takes too long time [#3854](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3854)
        - Fix a bug that DM may report `invalid sequence` when upstream is MySQL 8.0 [#3847](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3847)

>         - Fix a bug that redo logs are not cleaned up when removing a paused changefeed [#3919](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3919)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that redo logs are not cleaned up when removing a paused changefeed [#4740](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4740)
```

        - Fix a bug of data loss when DM does finer grained retry [#3487](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3487)
        - Fix OOM in container environments [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1798)
        - Fix a bug that stopping a loading task results in unexpected transfer of the task [#3771](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3771)

>         - Fix wrong progress returned for query-staus on loader [#3252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3252)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that wrong progress is returned for the `query-status` command on loader [#3252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3252)
```

        - Fix the issue that the `CREATE VIEW` statement interrupts data replication [#4173](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4173)
        - Fix the issue the schema needs to be reset after a DDL statement is skipped [#4177](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4177)
        - Fix the issue that `mq sink write row` does not have monitoring data [#3431](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3431)
        - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when a replication task is removed [#3128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3128)
        - Fix the potential issue that the deadlock causes a replication task to get stuck [#4055](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4055)
        - Fix the TiCDC panic issue that occurs when manually cleaning the task status in etcd [#2980](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2980)
        - Fix the issue that special comments in DDL statements cause the replication task to stop [#3755](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3755)
        - Fix the issue of replication stop caused by the incorrect configuration of `config.Metadata.Timeout` [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3352)

>         - Fix the issue that the service cannot be started because of a timezone issue in the RHEL release [#3584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3584)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the service cannot be started because of a timezone issue in some RHEL releases [#3584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3584)
```

        - Fix the issue that `stopped` changefeeds resume automatically after a cluster upgrade [#3473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3473)
        - Fix the issue that default values cannot be replicated [#3793](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3793)
        - Fix the issue of overly frequent warnings caused by MySQL sink deadlock [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2706)
        - Fix the bug that the `enable-old-value` configuration item is not automatically set to `true` on Canal and Maxwell protocols [#3676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3676)
        - Fix the issue that Avro sink does not support parsing JSON type columns [#3624](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3624)
        - Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3010)

    - TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the bug that TiDB Lightning may not delete the metadata schema when some import tasks do not contain source files [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)

>         - Fix the bug that TiDB Lightning returns an error if the storage URL prefix is "gs://xxx", instead of "gcs://xxx" [#30254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30254)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that TiDB Lightning returns an error if the storage URL prefix is "gs://xxx", instead of "gcs://xxx" [#32742](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32742)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.3.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.3.1 Release Notes

Release Date: xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.3.1

> ## Compatibility changes

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Tools

    + TiDB Lightning
    
                - Avoid tikv trigger auto region split by lower the ingest kv count threshold [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)

```

## Feature enhancements

- TiDB

>     - The TiDB server now maps a user to an entry in the mysql.user table more consistently. [#30450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30450)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the mapping logic of user login mode to make the logging more MySQL-compatible [#30450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30450)
```

        - Manage sink checkpoint per table to avoid checkpoint timestamp advance unexpected [#4083](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4083)

        (dup) - Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed. [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        (dup) - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3337)
        (dup) - Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        (dup) - Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)
        (dup) - Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
        (dup) - Reduce the time for the KV client to recover when a TiKV store is down [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191)

    Lightning

>         - Make tidb-lightning pre-check output message clearer [#30395](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/30395)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Make tidb-lightning pre-check output message clearer [#30395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30395)
```

>         - Make tidb-lightning pre-check output message clearer [#30395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30395)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Refine the precheck output message to make it more user-friendly [#30395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30395) [#30395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30395)
```

## Bug Fixes

- TiDB

>     - Fix date formate identifies '\n' as invalid separator [#32503](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32503)
>     - Fix alter column set default wrongly updates the schema [#31074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31074)
>     - Fix a bug that turning on tidb_restricted_read_only won't automatically turn on tidb_super_read_only [#31745](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31745)
>     - Fix greatest and least function with collation get wrong result [#31789](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31789)
>     - Fix the crash or error when generating an empty mpp task list. [#31636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31636)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `date_format` in TiDB handles `'\n'` in a MySQL-incompatible way [#32503](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32503)
    - Fix the issue that `alter column set default` wrongly updates the table schema [#31074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31074)
    - Fix a bug that `tidb_super_read_only` is not automatically enabled when `tidb_restricted_read_only` is enabled [#31745](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31745)
    - Fix the issue that the `greatest` or `least` function with collation gets wrong result [#31789](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31789)
    - Fix the error reported when generating an empty mpp task list [#31636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31636)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV perform a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that RocksDB flush or compaction causes panic when the disk capacity is full [#11224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11224)
    (dup) - Fix a bug that tikv-ctl cannot return the correct Region-related information [#11393](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11393)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the average latency of the by-instance gRPC requests is inaccurate in TiKV metrics [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)

- TiFlash

    - Fix the problem that `cast(arg as decimal(x,y))` return wrong result when `arg` overflows the range of `decimal(x,y)`
    - Fix the problem of TiFlash crashing when `max_memory_usage` and `max_memory_usage_for_all_queries` are enabled
    - Fix the problem that `cast(string ad real)` returns wrong result
    - Fixed the problem that cast(string as decimal) returns wrong result
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after altering a primary key column to a larger int data type

>     - Fix the problem that `select (arg0, arg1) in (x,y)` returns wrong result

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that when `in` has multiple arguments such as in the `select (arg0, arg1) in (x,y)` statement, `in` returns the wrong result
```

>     - Fix the problem that tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when an MPP query is stopped
```

>     - Fix the problem that tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when an MPP query is stopped
```

>     - Fix the problem that str_to_date return wrong result when the input argument has leading zeros.
>     - Fix the problem that query gets wrong results when the filter is like `where <string>`
>     - Fix the problem that `cast(string as datetime)` return wrong result when the string is of format `%Y-%m-%d\n%H:%i:%s`

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `str_to_date` returns the wrong result when the input argument has leading zeros.
    - Fix the issue that the query gets the wrong result when the filter is like `where <string>`
    - Fix the issue that `cast(string as datetime)` returns the wrong result when the string is in `%Y-%m-%d\n%H:%i:%s` format
```

- PD

    - Fix a bug that the operater steps may contain unnecessary or empty JointConsensus steps in certain conditions [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362)
    - Fix a bug that the operator could not be executed when demoting single voter directly [#4444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4444)
    - Fix data race when updating replication mode configuration [#4325](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4325)
    - Fix a bug that the RLock is not released in certain conditions [#4354](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4354)

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the cold hotspot data cannot be deleted from the hotspot statistics [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

- Tools

    - Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fix a bug that caused region unbalanced after restoring. [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/31034)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Fix the potential issue that Regions might be unevenly distributed after a restore operation is finished. [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/31034)
```

        - Fix a bug that DM-worker can't boot up after restart [#3344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3344)
        - Fix a bug that DM task will failed when PARTITION DDL cost a long time [#3854](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3854)
        - Fix a bug that DM may report "invalid sequence" when upstream is MySQL 8.0 [#3847](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3847)
        - Fix a bug that redo logs are not cleaned up when removing a paused changefeed. [#3919](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3919)
        - Fix a bug of data loss when DM does finer grained retry [#3487](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3487)
        - Fix OOM in container environments. [#3439](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3439)
        - Stopping tasks during load phase won't cause the source to be transfered [#3771](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3771)
        - Fix query-staus progress for loader [#3252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3252)
        - Fix HTTP API works as expected now if there are TiCDC nodes of different versions in one cdc cluster. [#3483](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3483)

>         - 修复了当 CDC Redo Log 配置在 S3 存储上时的异常退出问题 [#3523](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3523)

Reviewer 8: :(

Reviewer 6: 中文有这条，但是英文没有，所以我添加到这里了。辛苦世春翻译下。

>         - Fix a bug of data loss when DM does finer grained retry [#3487](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3487)
>         - Fix OOM in container environments. [#3439](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3439)
>         - Stopping tasks during load phase won't cause the source to be transfered [#3771](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3771)
>         - Fix query-staus progress for loader [#3252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3252)
>         - Fix HTTP API works as expected now if there are TiCDC nodes of different versions in one cdc cluster. [#3483](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3483)
>         - 修复了当 CDC Redo Log 配置在 S3 存储上时的异常退出问题 [#3523](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3523)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug of data loss when DM does finer grained retry [#3487](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3487)
        - Fix OOM in container environments [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1798)
        - Fix a bug that stopping a loading task results in unexpected transfer of the task [#3771](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3771)
        - Fix wrong progress returned for query-staus on loader [#3252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3252)
        - Fix the issue that HTTP API fails to work if there are TiCDC nodes of different versions in a cluster [#3483](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3483)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC exits abnormally when S3 storage is configured with CDC Redo Log [#3523](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3523)
```

        (dup) - Fix the issue that default values cannot be replicated [#3793](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3793)
        (dup) - Fix the issue of overly frequent warnings caused by MySQL sink deadlock [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2706)
        (dup) - Fix the bug that the `enable-old-value` configuration item is not automatically set to `true` on Canal and Maxwell protocols [#3676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3676)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that Avro sink does not support parsing JSON type columns [#3624](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3624)
        (dup) - Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3010)

    - TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the bug that lightning may not clean up metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
        - Fix the bug that lighting return error if gcs url starts with gs:// [#30254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30254)

>         - Avoid tikv trigger auto region split by lower the ingest kv count threshold [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)

Reviewer: 这条是兼容性变更信息
```suggestion
```

>         - Fix log doesn't output to stdout when passing --log-file="-" [#29876](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/29876)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Print logs to stdout when passing --log-file="-" [#29876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29876)
```

>         - Fix the bug that lightning may not clean up metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
>         - Fix the bug that lighting return error if gcs url starts with gs:// [#30254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30254)
>         - Avoid tikv trigger auto region split by lower the ingest kv count threshold [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)
>         - Print logs to stdout when passing --log-file="-" [#29876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29876)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that Lightning may not delete the metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
        - Fix the bug that Lighting returns an error if the storage URL is "gs://xxx" instead of "gcs://xxx" [#30254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30254)
        - Fix the issue that TiKV splits too many empty regions after data import [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)
        - Fix the issue that setting --log-file="-" will not print any log to stdout [#29876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29876)        
```

        - Manage sink checkpoints per table to avoid unexpected advance of checkpoint timestamps [#3545](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3545)

        (dup) - Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed. [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        (dup) - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3337)
        (dup) - Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        (dup) - Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)
        (dup) - Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
        (dup) - Reduce the time for the KV client to recover when a TiKV store is down [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191)

>     - Lightning

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - TiDB Lightning
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that RocksDB flush or compaction causes panic when the disk capacity is full [#11224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11224)
    (dup) - Fix a bug that tikv-ctl cannot return the correct Region-related information [#11393](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11393)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the average latency of the by-instance gRPC requests is inaccurate in TiKV metrics [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)

- PD

    - Fix a bug that the scheduling process has the unnecessary JointConsensus steps in certain cases [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362)
    - Fix a bug that the scheduling cannot be executed when demoting a voter directly [#4444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4444)
    - Fix a data race issue that occurs when updating the configuration of the replication mode of replicas [#4325](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4325)
    - Fix a bug that the Read lock is not released in certain cases [#4354](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4354)

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the cold hotspot data cannot be deleted from the hotspot statistics [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

- TiFlash

>     - Fix the problem that `cast(arg as decimal(x,y))` returns a wrong result when `arg` overflows the range of `decimal(x,y)`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `cast(arg as decimal(x,y))` returns a wrong result when the input parameter `arg` overflows the range of `decimal(x,y)`
```

    - Fix the TiFlash crash issue that occurs when `max_memory_usage` and `max_memory_usage_for_all_queries` are enabled
    - Fix the issue that `cast(string as real)` returns a wrong result
    - Fixed the issue that `cast(string as decimal)` returns a wrong result
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after altering a primary key column to a larger int data type

>     - Fix the bug that when `in` has multiple arguments such as in the `select (arg0, arg1) in (x,y)` statement, `in` returns the wrong result

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that when `in` has multiple arguments in the statements like `select (arg0, arg1) in (x,y)`, `in` returns a wrong result
```

    - (dup) Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when an MPP query is stopped

>     - Fix the issue that `str_to_date` returns the wrong result when the input argument has leading zeros.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `str_to_date` returns a wrong result when the input argument has leading zeros
```

>     - Fix the issue that the query gets the wrong result when the filter is like `where <string>`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the query gets a wrong result when the filter is like `where <string>`
```

>     - Fix the issue that `str_to_date` returns the wrong result when the input argument has leading zeros.
>     - Fix the issue that the query gets the wrong result when the filter is like `where <string>`
>     - Fix the issue that `cast(string as datetime)` returns the wrong result when the string is in `%Y-%m-%d\n%H:%i:%s` format

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `str_to_date` returns a wrong result when the input argument has leading zeros
    - Fix the issue that the query gets a wrong result when the filter is in `where <string>` format
    - Fix the issue that `cast(string as datetime)` returns the wrong result when the the input argument `string` is in `%Y-%m-%d\n%H:%i:%s` format
```

- Tools

    - Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fix the potential issue that Regions might be unevenly distributed after a restore operation is finished. [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the potential issue that Regions might be unevenly distributed after a restore operation is finished [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034)
```

        (dup) - Fix the issue that the service cannot be started because of a timezone issue in the RHEL release [#3584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3584)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that `stopped` changefeeds resume automatically after a cluster upgrade [#3473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3473)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that default values cannot be replicated [#3793](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3793)
        (dup) - Fix the issue of overly frequent warnings caused by MySQL sink deadlock [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2706)
        (dup) - Fix the bug that the `enable-old-value` configuration item is not automatically set to `true` on Canal and Maxwell protocols [#3676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3676)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that Avro sink does not support parsing JSON type columns [#3624](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3624)
        (dup) - Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3010)

    - TiDB Lightning

>         - Fix the bug that Lightning may not delete the metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
>         - Fix the bug that Lightning returns an error if the storage URL prefix is "gs://xxx" instead of "gcs://xxx" [#30254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30254)
>         - Fix the issue that setting --log-file="-" will not print any log to stdout [#29876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29876)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that TiDB Lightning may not delete the metadata schema when some imports contain no source files [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
        - Fix the bug that TiDB Lightning returns an error if the storage URL prefix is "gs://xxx", instead of "gcs://xxx" [#30254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30254)
        - Fix the issue that setting --log-file="-" does not print any log to stdout [#29876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29876)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.3.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.3.1 Release Notes

Release Date: xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.3.1

## Compatibility changes

- Tools

    + TiDB Lightning
    

>          - Decreate the default region max-keys from 1_440_000 to 1_280_000, to avoid too many empty Regions after data import [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
         - Decreate the default value of the region max-keys from 1_440_000 to 1_280_000, to avoid too many empty Regions after data import [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)
```

>          - Change the default value of the region max-keys from 1_440_000 to 1_280_000, to avoid too many empty Regions after data import [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
         - Change the default value of `regionMaxKeyCount` from 1_440_000 to 1_280_000, to avoid too many empty Regions after data import [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)
```

>          - Decreate the default value of the region max-keys from 1_440_000 to 1_280_000, to avoid too many empty Regions after data import [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
         - Change the default value of the region max-keys from 1_440_000 to 1_280_000, to avoid too many empty Regions after data import [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)
```

## Feature enhancements

- TiDB

    - The TiDB server now maps a user to an entry in the mysql.user table more consistently. [#30450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30450)

- TiKV

>     - Reduces TiCDC recovery time by reducing the number of the Regions that require the Resolve Locks step [#11993](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11993)

Reviewer 7: Does `TiCDC` equal to `CDC`?

Reviewer 6: Yes

>     - Reduce CDC recovery time by reduce the number regions that need resolved lock. [#11993](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11993)
>     - Increase the size of write batch for raftlog GC to speed up GC. [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Reduces CDC recovery time by reducing the number of the Regions that require the Resolve Locks step [#11993](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11993)
    - Speed up the Garbage Collection (GC) process by increasing the write batch size when perform GC to Raft logs [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
```

Reviewer 7: I'm not sure if `CDC` equals `TiCDC`.

    (dup) - Update the proc filesystem (procfs) to v0.12.0 [#11702](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11702)

- PD

>     - Improve DR_STATE file content format [#4341](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4341)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the contents format of the `DR_STATE` file [#4341](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4341)
```

>     - Optimize the contents' format of the `DR_STATE` file [#4341](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4341)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the format of content in the `DR_STATE` file [#4341](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4341)
```

        - Refine the output message of the precheck to make it more user-friendly when the local disk space check fails [#30395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30395) 

## Bug Fixes

- TiDB

    - Fix the issue that `date_format` in TiDB handles `'\n'` in a MySQL-incompatible way [#32503](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32503)
    - Fix the issue that `alter column set default` wrongly updates the table schema [#31074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31074)
    - Fix a bug that `tidb_super_read_only` is not automatically enabled when `tidb_restricted_read_only` is enabled [#31745](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31745)
    - Fix the issue that the `greatest` or `least` function with collation gets wrong result [#31789](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31789)
    - Fix the MPP task list empty error when executing a query [#31636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31636)
    - Fix wrong results of index join caused by an innerWorker panic [#31494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31494)
    - Fix wrong query results after changing the column type from `FLOAT` to `DOUBLE` [#31372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31372)

>     - Fix the "invalid transaction" error when executing a query using index lookup join [#30468](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30468)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the `invalid transaction` error when executing a query using index lookup join [#30468](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30468)
```

    - Fix wrong query results due to the optimization of `Order By` [#30271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30271)

>     - Fix the issue that the configurations of `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` do not take effect for slow log [#25716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25716)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the configurations of `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` do not take effect on the slow log [#25716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25716)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that executing the INSERT ... SELECT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE statement gets panic [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)

- TiKV

    - Fix the panic issue caused by deleting snapshot files when the peer status is `Applying` [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
    - Fix the issue of QPS drop when flow control is enabled and `level0_slowdown_trigger` is set explicitly [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)

>     - Fix the panic issue that occurs when the cgroup controller  is not mounted [#11569](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11569)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when the cgroup controller is not mounted [#11569](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11569)
```

>     - Fix a potential panic when snapshot files have been deleted but the peer's status is still Applying. [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
>     - Fix possible QPS drop when `level0_slowdown_trigger` is set explicitly with flow control enabled. [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)
>     - Fix panic when cgroup controller is not mounted [#11569](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11569)
>     - Fix resolved ts lag increased after stoping a tikv [#11352](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11352)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue caused by deleting snapshot files when the peer status is `Applying` [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
    - Fix the issue of QPS drop when flow control is enabled and `level0_slowdown_trigger` is set explicitly [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)
    - Fix panic when cgroup controller is not mounted [#11569](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11569)
    - Fix resolved ts lag increased after stoping a tikv [#11352](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11352)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that a down TiKV node causes the resolved timestamp to lag [#11351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11351)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that batch messages are too large in Raft client implementation [#9714](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9714)
    (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs when Region merge, ConfChange, and Snapshot happen at the same time in extreme conditions [#11475](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11475)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV perform a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that RocksDB flush or compaction causes panic when the disk capacity is full [#11224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11224)
    (dup) - Fix a bug that tikv-ctl cannot return the correct Region-related information [#11393](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11393)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the average latency of the by-instance gRPC requests is inaccurate in TiKV metrics [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

- PD

    - Fix a bug that the scheduling process has the unnecessary JointConsensus steps in certain cases [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362)
    - Fix a bug that the scheduling cannot be executed when demoting a voter directly [#4444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4444)
    - Fix a data race issue that occurs when updating the configuration of the replication mode of replicas [#4325](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4325)
    - Fix a bug that the Read lock is not released in certain cases [#4354](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4354)

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the cold hotspot data cannot be deleted from the hotspot statistics [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)
```

- TiFlash

    - Fix the problem that `cast(arg as decimal(x,y))` returns a wrong result when `arg` overflows the range of `decimal(x,y)`
    - Fix the TiFlash crash issue that occurs when `max_memory_usage` and `max_memory_usage_for_all_queries` are enabled
    - Fix the issue that `cast(string as real)` returns a wrong result
    - Fixed the issue that `cast(string as decimal)` returns a wrong result
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after altering a primary key column to a larger int data type
    - Fix the bug that when `in` has multiple arguments such as in the `select (arg0, arg1) in (x,y)` statement, `in` returns the wrong result
    - (dup) Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when an MPP query is stopped
    - Fix the issue that `str_to_date` returns the wrong result when the input argument has leading zeros.
    - Fix the issue that the query gets the wrong result when the filter is like `where <string>`
    - Fix the issue that `cast(string as datetime)` returns the wrong result when the string is in `%Y-%m-%d\n%H:%i:%s` format

- PD

>     - Fix a bug that the operater steps may contain unnecessary or empty JointConsensus steps in certain conditions [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362)
>     - Fix a bug that the operator could not be executed when demoting single voter directly [#4444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4444)
>     - Fix data race when updating replication mode configuration [#4325](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4325)
>     - Fix a bug that the RLock is not released in certain conditions [#4354](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4354)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that the scheduling process has the unnecessary JointConsensus steps in certain cases [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362)
    - Fix a bug that the scheduling cannot be executed when demoting a voter directly [#4444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4444)
    - Fix a data race issue that occurs when updating the configuration of the replication mode of replicas [#4325](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4325)
    - Fix a bug that the Read lock is not released in certain cases [#4354](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4354)
```

> 
> - PD
> 
>     - Fix a bug that the operater steps may contain unnecessary or empty JointConsensus steps in certain conditions [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362)
>     - Fix a bug that the operator could not be executed when demoting single voter directly [#4444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4444)
>     - Fix data race when updating replication mode configuration [#4325](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4325)
>     - Fix a bug that the RLock is not released in certain conditions [#4354](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4354)
> 
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that the cold hotspot data cannot be deleted from the hotspot statistics [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 4: moved to line 93

        - Manage sink checkpoint per table to avoid checkpoint timestamp advance unexpected [#4083](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4083)

        (dup) - Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed. [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        (dup) - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3337)
        (dup) - Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        (dup) - Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)
        (dup) - Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
        (dup) - Reduce the time for the KV client to recover when a TiKV store is down [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191)

    - Lightning

>         - Make tidb-lightning pre-check output message clearer [#30395](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/30395)

Reviewer 8: Should be https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30395.

        (dup) - Fix the issue that the service cannot be started because of a timezone issue in the RHEL release [#3584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3584)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that `stopped` changefeeds resume automatically after a cluster upgrade [#3473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3473)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that default values cannot be replicated [#3793](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3793)
        (dup) - Fix the issue of overly frequent warnings caused by MySQL sink deadlock [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2706)
        (dup) - Fix the bug that the `enable-old-value` configuration item is not automatically set to `true` on Canal and Maxwell protocols [#3676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3676)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that Avro sink does not support parsing JSON type columns [#3624](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3624)
        (dup) - Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3010)

    - TiDB Lightning

>         - Fix the bug that lightning may not clean up metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/28144)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that lightning may not clean up metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
```

>         - Fix the bug that lightning may not clean up metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/28144)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that lightning may not clean up metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
```

        - Fix the bug that lighting return error if gcs url starts with gs:// [#30254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30254)

>         - Avoid tikv trigger auto region split by lower the ingest kv count threshold [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/30018)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Avoid tikv trigger auto region split by lower the ingest kv count threshold [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.3.1 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.3.1 Release Notes

Release Date: xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.3.1

## Compatibility changes

TiDB

TiKV

PD

TiDB Dashboard

TiFlash

Tools

    - Backup & Restore (BR)

    - TiCDC

    - Dumpling

    - TiDB Binlog

    - TiDB Lightning

## Feature enhancements

TiDB

>     - The TiDB server now maps a user to an entry in the mysql.user table more consistently. [#30450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30450)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

    - The TiDB server now maps a user to an entry in the mysql.user table more consistently. [#30450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30450)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the average latency of the by-instance gRPC requests is inaccurate in TiKV metrics [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the problem that `cast(arg as decimal(x,y))` return wrong result when `arg` overflows the range of `decimal(x,y)`
    - Fix the problem of TiFlash crashing when `max_memory_usage` and `max_memory_usage_for_all_queries` are enabled
    - Fix the problem that `cast(string ad real)` returns wrong result
    - Fixed the problem that cast(string as decimal) returns wrong result
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after altering a primary key column to a larger int data type
    - Fix the problem that `select (arg0, arg1) in (x,y)` returns wrong result
    - Fix the problem that tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed
    - Fix the problem that str_to_date return wrong result when the input argument has leading zeros.
    - Fix the problem that query gets wrong results when the filter is like `where <string>`
    - Fix the problem that `cast(string as datetime)` return wrong result when the string is of format `%Y-%m-%d\n%H:%i:%s`

> 
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that executing the `INSERT ... SELECT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement gets panic [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not report errors when the S3 storage path does not exist [#28031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28031) [#30709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30709)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

+ PD

    - Fix a bug that the operater steps may contain unnecessary or empty JointConsensus steps in certain conditions [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362)
    - Fix a bug that the operator could not be executed when demoting single voter directly [#4444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4444)
    - Fix data race when updating replication mode configuration [#4325](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4325)
    - Fix a bug that the RLock is not released in certain conditions [#4354](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4354)

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the cold hotspot data cannot be deleted from the hotspot statistics [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)

Tools

    - Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fix a bug that caused region unbalanced after restoring. [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/31034)

Reviewer 8: The issue should be https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034.

        (dup) - Fix the issue that the service cannot be started because of a timezone issue in the RHEL release [#3584](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3584)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that `stopped` changefeeds resume automatically after a cluster upgrade [#3473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3473)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that default values cannot be replicated [#3793](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3793)
        (dup) - Fix the issue of overly frequent warnings caused by MySQL sink deadlock [#2706](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2706)
        (dup) - Fix the bug that the `enable-old-value` configuration item is not automatically set to `true` on Canal and Maxwell protocols [#3676](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3676)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that Avro sink does not support parsing JSON type columns [#3624](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3624)
        (dup) - Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3010)

    - TiDB Lightning

>         - Fix the bug that lightning may not clean up metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/28144)

Reviewer 8: The issue should be https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144.

>         - Fix the bug that lightning may not clean up metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/28144)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that lightning may not clean up metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
```

>         - Fix the bug that lighting return error if gcs url starts with gs:// [#32591](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/32591)

Reviewer 8: https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32591 is a tracking issue. It's better to replace it with https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30254.

Reviewer 6: What is the corresponding issue number of https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30254 ?

>         - Fix the bug that lighting return error if gcs url starts with gs:// [#32591](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/32591)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that lighting return error if gcs url starts with gs:// [#30254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30254)
```

>         - Avoid tikv trigger auto region split by lower the ingest kv count threshold [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/30018)

Reviewer 8: The issue should be https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018

>         - Fix log doesn't output to stdout when passing --log-file="-" [#29876](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/29876)

Reviewer 8: - Print logs to stdout when passing --log-file="-" [#29876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29876)

---
title: TiDB 5.3.1 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.3.1 Release Notes

Release Date: xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.3.1

## Compatibility changes

TiDB

TiKV

PD

TiDB Dashboard

TiFlash

Tools

    - Backup & Restore (BR)

    - TiCDC

    - Dumpling

    - TiDB Binlog

    - TiDB Lightning

## Feature enhancements

> 

Reviewer 8: + Tools
    - Backup & Restore (BR)

    - TiCDC
        - Expose Kafka producer's configuration parameters can be configured [#4385](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4385)
        - Fix OOM in container environments. [#3439](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3439)

    - Dumpling

    - TiDB Binlog

    - TiDB Lightning

## __unsorted

> + TiDB

Reviewer 9: tidb bug fix:
    - Fix date formate identifies '\n' as invalid separator [#32503](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/32503)
    - Fix `alter column set default` wrongly updates the schema [#31074](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31074)
    - Fix a bug that turning on tidb_restricted_read_only won't automatically turn on tidb_super_read_only [#31745](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31745)
    - Fix greatest and least function with collation get wrong result [#31789](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31789)
    - Fix the crash or error when generating an empty mpp task list. [#31636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31636)
    - Fix index join bug caused by innerWorker panic [#31494](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31494)
    - Fix double column value are different with MySQL after changing column type from float to double [#31372](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31372)
    - Fix a data race that may cause "invalid transaction" error when executing a query using index lookup join. [#30468](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30468)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that executing the `INSERT ... SELECT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement gets panic [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
    - Fix a bug when reducing order by clause for the index which leads to the wrong result. [#30271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30271)
    - The TiDB server now maps a user to an entry in the mysql.user table more consistently. [#30450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30450)
    - Fix `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` not working for slow log. [#30172](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30172)

lighting unsorted:
    - Fix the bug that lightning may not clean up metadata schema when some of the import contains no source files. [#28144](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28144)
    - Fix the bug that lighting return error if gcs url starts with gs:// [#32591](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32591)
    - Make tidb-lightning pre-check output message clearer [#30395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30395)
    - Avoid tikv trigger auto region split by lower the ingest kv count threshold [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not report errors when the S3 storage path does not exist [#28031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28031) [#30709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30709)
    - Lightning: fix log doesn't output to stdout when passing `--log-file="-"` [#29876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29876)

br unsorted:
    - Fix a bug that caused region unbalanced after restoring. [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034)

    - [#30999](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30999)
    - Fix a bug that the `mysql_stmt_field_count` returned to mysql client is incorrect in prepare protocal when handling union statement. [#30971](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30971)
    - Make tidb-lightning pre-check output message clearer [#30395](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30395)
    - Avoid tikv trigger auto region split by lower the ingest kv count threshold [#30018](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30018)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not report errors when the S3 storage path does not exist [#28031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28031) [#30709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30709)
    - planner: regard NULL as point when accessing composite index [#29650](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29650)
    - Fix a bug when reducing order by clause for the index which leads to the wrong result. [#30271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30271)
    - The TiDB server now maps a user to an entry in the mysql.user table more consistently. [#30450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30450)

>     - Fix `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` not working for slow log. [#30172](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30172)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` not working for slow log. [#25716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25716)
```

    (dup) - Fix the deadlock issue that happens occasionally when coroutines run too fast [#11549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11549)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that a down TiKV node causes the resolved timestamp to lag [#11351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11351)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that batch messages are too large in Raft client implementation [#9714](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9714)
    (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs when Region merge, ConfChange, and Snapshot happen at the same time in extreme conditions [#11475](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11475)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV perform a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that RocksDB flush or compaction causes panic when the disk capacity is full [#11224](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11224)
    (dup) - Fix a bug that tikv-ctl cannot return the correct Region-related information [#11393](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11393)

>     (dup) - Fix the issue that the average latency of the by-instance gRPC requests is inaccurate in TiKV metrics [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)

Reviewer 10: Bug fixes:
- Fix a potential panic (#11746) when snapshot files have been deleted but the peer's status is still Applying. [#11746](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11746)
- Fix possible QPS drop when `level0_slowdown_trigger` is set explicitly with flow control enabled. [#11424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11424)
- Fix panic when cgroup controller is not mounted [#11569](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11569)
- Fix resolved ts lag increased after stoping a tikv [#11352](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11352)
Feature enhancements:
- Reduce CDC recovery time by reduce the number regions that need resolved lock. [#11993](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11993)
- Increase the size of write batch for raftlog GC to speed up GC. [#11404](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11404)
- TiKV will panic at once when read request met engine corruption error. [11617](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11617)

> + TiFlash

Reviewer 11: TiFlash
bugfix

    - Fix the problem that `cast(input as decimal(x,y))` return wrong result when input overflows the range of `decimal(x,y)`
    - Fix the problem of TiFlash crashing when `max_memory_usage` and `max_memory_usage_for_all_queries` are enabled
    - Fix the problem that `cast(string ad real)` returns wrong result
    - Fixed the problem that cast(string as decimal) returns wrong result
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after altering a primary key column to a larger int data type
    - Fix the problem that `select (arg0, arg1) in (x,y)` returns wrong result
    - Fix the problem that 
    - Fix the problem that tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed
    - Fix the problem that str_to_date return wrong result when the input argument has leading zeros.
    - Fix the problem that query gets wrong results when the filter is like `where <string>`.
    - Fix the problem that `cast(string as datetime)` return wrong result when the string if of format `%Y-%m-%d\n%H:%i:%s`.

    - Fix error result for function `in`
    - Fix cast to decimal overflow bug
    - Fix date format identifies '\n' as invalid separator
    - Fix cannot find column error after add column when remote read was triggered in tiflash
    - Fix str_to_date() function incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing Microseconds
    - Fix the problem of TiFlash crashing when the memory limit is enabled
    - Fix the bug that castStringAsReal has different behaivor between tiflash and tikv/tidb
    - Avoid false alert of `DB::Exception: Encode type of coprocessor response is not CHBlock`
    - Fix random `EstablishMPPConnection` fail after TiFlash server restart.
    - Fixed the inconsistent behavior of CastStringAsDecimal between tiflash and tidb/tikv.
    - Fix potential data inconsistency after altering a primary key column to a larger int data type
    - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong because it will be converted to int type.
    - Fix tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed.

> + PD
> 
>     - None. [#4663](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4663)
>     - Fix a bug that operate steps may contain unnecessary or empty JointConsensus steps in certain conditions 
>     - Fix a bug when demoting single voter directly [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362)
>     (dup) - Fix the issue that the cold hotspot data cannot be deleted from the hotspot statistics [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)
>     - Improve DR_STATE file content format [#4341](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4341)
>     - Fix data race when updating replication mode configuration [#4325](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4325)
>     - Fix the issue that the RLock is not released [#4354](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4354)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ PD

## Bug fixes

    - Fix a bug that the operate steps may contain unnecessary or empty JointConsensus steps in certain conditions [#4362](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4362)
    - Fix a bug that the operator could not be executed when demoting single voter directly [#4444](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4444)
    - Fix data race when updating replication mode configuration [#4325](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4325)
    - Fix a bug that the RLock is not released in certain conditions [#4354](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4354)

## Feature enhancements

    - Improve DR_STATE file content format [#4341](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4341)
```

    - Add a new config to control whether support incremental import. [#27919](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27919)
    - Executor: fix pipelined window invalid memory address [#30326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30326)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that window functions might return different results when using a transaction or not [#29947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29947)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the SQL statements that contain `cast(integer as char) union string` return wrong results [#29513](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29513)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the length information is wrong when casting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)

+ TiFlash

    - Align unix_timestamp behavior with TiDB and mysql when input is earlier than 1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC

+ PD

    (dup) - Fix a bug that the schedule generated by the region scatterer might decrease the number of peers [#4565](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4565)
    - Fix incomplete replicate file [#4328](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4328)

>     (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs after the TiKV node is removed [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)

Reviewer 8: + Tools
    - Backup & Restore (BR)

    - TiCDC
        - Fix a bug that long varchar will report error of "Column length too big" [#4637](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4637)
        - Fix a bug that owner exits abnormally when PD leader is killed [#4248](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4248)
        - Fix the issue that update statement execute error in safemode may cause DM-worker panic [#4317](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4317)
        - Fix kv client cached region metric could be negative [#4290](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4290)
        - Stopping tasks during load phase won't cause the source to be transfered [#3771](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3771)
        - Correct query-staus progress for loader [#3252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3252)
        - Fix the bug that http API panics when the required processor info is not exist [#3840](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3840)
        - Manage sink checkpoint per table to avoid checkpoint timestamp advance unexpected [#4083](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4083)
        - Fix a bug that when master and worker restart in a particular order, relay status in DM-master is wrong [#3478](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3478)
        - Fix a bug that DM-worker can't boot up after restart [#3344](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3344)
        - Fix a bug that DM task will failed when PARTITION DDL cost a long time [#3854](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3854)
        - Fix a bug that DM may report "invalid sequence" when upstream is MySQL 8.0 [#3847](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3847)
        - Fix a bug that redo logs are not cleaned up when removing a paused changefeed. [#3919](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3919)
        - CDC client works now when cert's common name was not specified [#3882](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3882)
        - Add pre clean up process when s3 enable [#3878](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3523)
        - Fix a bug of data loss when DM does finer grained retry [#3487](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3487)
        - HTTP API works as expected now if there are TiCDC nodes of different versions in one cdc cluster. [#3483](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3483)

    - Dumpling

    - TiDB Binlog

    - TiDB Lightning
